# SpliceSites2019
Project in Bioinformatics - Prediction of Splice Sites using Feed-Forward Neural Networks

The project was a 10 ECTS independent Master's course at Aarhus University. The following is the abstract from the report:
Prediction of splice sites in DNA sequences is a difficult challenge due to the manifold layers of complexity that surround the cellular exon/intron border delineation. However, machine learning approaches have shown great promise. This paper aims to demonstrate and elaborate on the implementation of various feed-forward neural networks for classification of DNA sequence windows of 140 bases as either acceptor, donor, or null splice sites. The task was split into two separate binary classification problems, and the curated Homo Sapiens Splice Sites Dataset (HS3D) was used for training. To achieve these goals, the open-source machine learning library Tensorflow and the high-level wrapper Keras were used to efficiently implement different architectures and optimize the relevant hyperparameters. Central concepts relating to the inner workings and instantiation of neural networks with these tools, such as activation, cost function, weights, and regularization, are introduced, and their relation to performance, model capacity, overfitting, and vanishing gradients was demonstrated, with the implemented models serving as examples. The evaluation of the models’ performances in the task of classifying splice sites was done using 10-fold cross validation in combination with a Lock Box approach, utilizing Matthew’s Correlation Coefficient as a balanced metric. Finally, the results are compared to other machine learning models presented in recent literature using the same data set, where this paper’s best performing model was shown to be fairly competitive, though a more advanced neural network wins out.
